# COVID19_Contact_Networks
  
With the COVID-19 pandemic, several areas of knowledge faced enormous challenges. These challenges are primarily healthy, but due to the consequences of a stoppage of activities on a global scale, there are also economic, social, technological, and ethical challenges. One of the strategies most defended by researchers is known as TTIQ - Test, Trace, Isolation, and Quarantine. Tracking contacts proved to be a useful tool when used at the beginning of the pandemic. Understanding the behavior of an infected person, and who had contact, leads us to the study of network science. It is an old problem, but it presents a new approach with the availability of data coming from smartphones. With the pandemic gravity, many countries, companies, and organizations launched applications for automatic information gathering, which created an ethical dilemma between holding the disease and giving up privacy. In this article, we analyze how to track a contact network and evaluate some of the main applications launched by governments and companies. We found that there is a challenge present in all initiatives, which is not only knowing where the person went but also the type of place, as contagion can be more dangerous in a closed environment. A multidisciplinary approach is necessary, as the simplification of a complex and heterogeneous territory ignores essential urban elements to a higher or lower propensity to transmission. Some of the protocols developed showed that it is possible to regulate anonymity and effectiveness in tracking, demonstrating that there is no need for a dilemma between health and privacy. We researched this work during the pandemic, so it is necessary to continue evaluating the tracking of contacts to follow the evolution of the results achieved.
